Ohio high school football players guilty in rape case
USA Today
17 March 2013
The case attracted international attention because the charges were brought after students talked about the incident in a YouTube video and texted naked photos of the victim, 16, to each other.  STEUBENVILLE, Ohio — Two high school football players were convicted Sunday of raping a drunken 16-year-old girl at an all-night party. Visiting Judge Thomas Lipps announced his verdict Sunday after reviewing evidence from the four-day trial. The case attracted international attention because the charges were brought after students talked about the incident in a YouTube video and texted naked photos of the girl, from a nearby West Virginia town, to each other. Trent Mays, 17, was found delinquent — the equivalent of guilty in juvenile court — and sentenced to a minimum of two years in detention and a maximum of confinement until his 21st birthday. His teammate, Ma'lik Richmond, 16, was sentenced to a minimum of one year of detention or until his 21st birthday. Mays received the extra year for a charge of illegal use of a minor in nudity-oriented material. Lipps said he had reviewed the text messages and photos while considering his verdict and found them "profane and ugly." "I'm aware this is the first time they have been in trouble with the law," Lipps said of the defendants, "But these are serious offenses. If they were convicted in an adult court of these charges, they would be spending many years in prison." Lipps, from another Ohio county, was appointed judge in the case because the Steubenville High School football team is a source of great pride in this economically depressed steel town. Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine appointed two attorneys from his office to act as special prosecutors in the case. "I had no intention to do anything like that and I apologize," Richmond said after being sentenced, sobbing as he spoke. He wept openly after the verdict was announced. The case has riveted the small city of Steubenville amid allegations that more students should have been charged and has led to questions about the influence of the popular football team, a source of pride in a community that suffered massive job losses with the collapse of the steel industry. About 30 protesters against violence that is directed at women applauded and cheered outside the courthouse when the verdict was announced. Both teens had maintained their innocence. The accuser took the stand Saturday and testified that she could not recall what happened the night of the attack before waking up naked in a strange house. She said she drank a mixed drink, spiked punch and a shot before leaving the party with Mays, WKYC in Cleveland reports. The girl said she suspects she was drugged because of how intoxicated she became that night. "I remember walking down the steps and in the street. That was it," she said. The prosecution says Mays and Richmond sexually assaulted the intoxicated girl in the back of a car, and then in the basement of a house where she later awoke, naked. She testified she could not find her cellphone, earrings, shoes or underwear. "It was really scary," she testified. "I was embarrassed and scared. I didn't know what to think. I couldn't remember. I woke up with no clothes on. I didn't know what happened at all." The girl said she did not learn of the assault until she saw a photo from that night and a friend gave her the link to a video posted on YouTube in which a student joked about the assault. When the accuser was shown a nude photo of herself that students had shared through text messages, she broke down and cried on the stand. "I was just not myself. I wasn't being myself," the girl said. She testified she does not remember being photographed as Mays and Richmond carried her, in an image that was widely circulated on social media sites. Earlier Saturday, the defense questioned witnesses who called the accuser's credibility into question. Gionna Anile, a former friend of the victim, testified she tried to stop the girl from leaving the party with Mays and Richmond. "She would not listen to me," Anile said. "I tried to pull her back, saying 'let's go.' She swung her arm at me." Anile testified she picked up the victim the next morning where she found her lying on a couch in the basement of a Steubenville student's home, the Cleveland Plain Dealer reports. The girl did not seem upset, Anile said, and was primarily concerned with finding her cellphone. Anile asked the girl what happened the night before. "We didn't have sex, I swear," the victim said at first, according to Anile. But soon after that the girl said she didn't remember what happened. West Virginia high school student Kelsey Weaver said the accuser told her what happened two days after the attack then, sometime afterward, told Weaver she couldn't remember what happened. "So two different versions?" asked Mays's attorney Adam Nemann. "Yes," Weaver replied. Weaver also said the accuser had been flirting with Richmond at the party. Both Weaver and Anile testified that they were upset with the victim the night of the party because she was drinking heavily. They both said she has a history of drinking and has lied about things in the past.