Girl 'Continued to Say No' to Conn. Football Players Accused of Rape, According to Arrest Warrants
ABC News
15 April 2013
One of the 13-year-old alleged victims in the Torrington, Conn., statutory rape case told police she was "forced" to have sex with one of the 18-year-old high school football players accused of sexual assault even though she "continued to say no," according to police documents. The arrest warrants in the case, unsealed on Friday, detail the allegations that led to sexual assault charges being filed against Torrington High School students Edgar Gonzalez and Joan Toribio, who were arrested in February and charged with second degree sexual assault, among other crimes. Both Toribio and Gonzalez allegedly admitted to police they had sex with the girls and apologized for their actions, according to the warrants. Before the warrants were released, both pleaded not guilty to the charges. According to the warrants, one 13-year-old girl, who is identified as Juvenile A, told a forensic interviewer at Torrington's Center for Youth and Families that while she was having intercourse with Gonzalez, he "had his hands on the back of her head," and "at one point, Gonzalez held "her arm back behind her body." According to the warrants, the two 13-year-olds who were the alleged victims of sexual assault snuck out of the house of one of the girls in the early hours of the morning of Feb. 10 and went to Toribio's apartment. Juvenile A told police she smoked pot with both of the football players, and drank alcohol with Gonzalez before the alleged assault occurred, according to the warrants. She told police that at one point in the evening, Gonzalez forced her to take a shot, grabbing her head back before pouring alcohol into her mouth. Juvenile A said she agreed to have oral sex with Gonzalez, but did not want to have sex with him, "but as a result of the marijuana, alcohol, and 'entire situation' vaginal sex just happened anyway," the warrant said. But according to the warrant, Gonzalez told police that Juvenile A "was a willing participant," and denied forcing her to have sex with him. "At one point, she did state, '…I don't know…I don't want to do this,' and we then stopped," he said, according to the warrant. The second 13-year-old victim, referred to as Juvenile B, told police that while she did not drink or smoke pot with either of the football players, she had both oral and vaginal intercourse with Toribio, according to the warrant. The girl was reluctant to speak about the alleged sexual assault by Toribio but told police, "I ruined his life," the warrants said. Torrington Police took both of the alleged victim's cell phones, as well as the cell phone of a third girl. According to the warrants, investigators found multiple texting and social media conversations between these three girls and their friends discussing how the two 13-year-olds had sex with Toribio and Gonzalez. The cases of both Toribio and Gonzalez are pending. Toribio is scheduled to appear at Litchfield Judicial District Courthouse on April 23. State prosecutor Terri Sonnemann declined to comment to ABC News. According to Connecticut law, a person is guilty of second degree sexual assault if they engage in sexual intercourse with another person who is "thirteen years of age or older but under sixteen years of age and the actor is more than three years older than such other person." If convicted, Gonzalez and Toribio would be charged with a class B felony and face up to 20 years in jail and/or a fine of up to $15,000 because the alleged victims were under the age of 16. Toribio's attorney, Charles Brower, declined to comment to ABC News. ABC News' calls to Gonzelez's attorney, Dennis Bradley, were not immediately returned. Barbara Spiegel, executive director of the Susan B. Anthony Project, a local domestic and sexual abuse advocacy center, told ABCNews.com that reading in the warrants about the alleged victim who reportedly said no was "just another stronger statement about this not being consensual." "By her age, she legally cannot give consent anyway," she said. "But on top of that, there sounds to be a forcible nature to this act." Spiegel said community educators from the Susan B. Anthony project increased their presence in Torrington High School to reinforce lessons on cyber bullying, boundaries and consent since the two high school students were charged. As program personnel revisit lessons on the standards of consent, Spiegel said, the reactions they get from the students in discussions range from anger, to confusion, to disgust. "Some of them are genuinely like, 'These are my friends and I don't want to see them suffer consequences,'" she said. "We're trying to help them understand the law." While some are sympathetic to Toribio and Gonzalez, Spiegel said, others judge the two football players for allegedly assaulting two 13-year-olds. But there are even students who don't want the case brought up in school anymore, Spiegel said. "They don't want this story to be about what's going on in their town and their school," she said. "Each person wants their life to go on without it being about this incident."